usually it's my kids who break stuff and
I'm the one who gets to fix it but when
corrosion in my DIY pool water cooling
setup caused a catastrophic leak on his
gaming PC it seemed like a perfect
opportunity to flip the script I mean
sure it's my fault it broke but what
could are kids if you can't put them to
work and besides what a great
opportunity for some learning yay
learning but Dad my laptop's barely
working I want to upgrade to cyborg 14
for from our sponsor MSI it's perfect
for balancing class work and gaming
they're having a back to school sale now
check out the link in the description
just because you have a spill on your
computer doesn't necessarily mean that
it's dead if you can unplug it clean it
dry it off and fire it back up it might
work just like the PC that we
intentionally spilled cocon but that's
not what happened here this system sat
for hours in a puddle of water and its
own corroded Gunk it should be dead but
somehow miraculously it survived so then
no problem all I've got to do is have my
son put his water cooling back in right
wrong because if we do that it's
probably going to corrode again so we've
got to figure out the root cause the
best theory we have is that this was
caused by a ground Loop between the pump
and the computers which causes a slight
voltage differential which can
drastically accelerate corrosion Jake is
actually working right now on the video
that maybe you guys have seen where we
added an isolation transform to the
pumps and grounded the rack which means
hey come on boy it's time to learn how
to clean a really crusty water block
when am I ever going to do this again
hopefully never if Jake does all of this
right probably soon but if it happens
again we're going to be in relatively
okay shape because one of the other
things we're going to be installing in
the boy's computer is a leak sensor well
what are you waiting for let's go
luckily the only things that got eaten
away were the fittings so all we've got
to do now is remove all of the gunk that
was deposited from the fittings onto
these blocks now the bad news for you is
I accidentally left my Grasso at the
office so you get to try this Mother's
Meg in aluminum polish which I don't
know if it's going to work or goof off
which I really think is not going to
work here's a toothbrush you'll need
water okay that's not doing much let's
try some Meg polish that's probably not
what that's supposed to look like oh it
smells so bad
okay let's see very similar to how it
did before it really does doesn't it I
wonder if pick action is a better bet
that does actually seem to be a lot
better do I really want to get a dental
pick into all these little bins well
you're not doing it oh yeah I'll go get
you a dental pick I changed my mind
while I thought I had dental picks it
turns out I actually don't but what I do
have is is a lot of xacto knife blades
oh wow yeah this comes off real good
don't cut toward your finger like that
cuz if you put that into your thumb we
will have to go to the ER room and
you'll need a tetnus shot like me I got
attacked by a
cat so fun I wouldn't rather be doing
anything else I'll tell you what boy I'm
nothing if not fair you clean that piece
I'll clean these three pieces
okay good deal maybe what I didn't tell
my son is there is another way I brought
an ultrasonic cleaner
home I can clean so much water block
with this bad boy got some general
purpose Ultrasonic Cleaner lemon
scented there they go I hope I have
enough for this I only have the one jug
Extra Strength
formula this product is a concentrate
one part product with 10 parts water I
have created some work for
myself I don't even know what color the
back is supposed to
be just salvage some of that back um oh
yeah
buddy and here's some
water why don't we kick things off with
the top of the CPU block all of this
stuff was pretty easy to get the gunk
out of I actually did that before but
what's hard to get at is these threads
in here this should help help with that
in a big way let's heat it
up right I forgot what a horrible noise
it makes okay let's throw this bad boy
in there
dude ultrasonic cleaners are freaking
awesome can I use the Ultrasonic
Cleaner sure when were you going to tell
me about the Ultrasonic Cleaner it
wasn't these are great they use
ultrasonic vibrations to create these
little scrubby micro bubbles that will
remove any debris and crud from the
surface of uh like a water block or a
piece of jewelry or whatever the case
may be wow not that we necessarily need
it you made really good progress yay the
boy can do work when he wants to check
this
out oh my God yeah sorry that is awful
yeah I know whoa look at it rip off this
corrosion on this bad boy you can
actually see big flags coming off this
guy check that out now it's time to pull
the system so go around to the back uh
get it turned off and unplugged we're
going to be doing two things we're going
to un Jerry rig it so you can see I
threw a replacement aircooled graphics
card in here that's going to have to go
and we're going to add a leak sensor now
Jake is working on the parts that'll do
the actual monitoring and handle
automations to turn the systems off in
the event of a leak meanwhile we will be
installing this leak sensor this appears
to be too are we expecting there to be
two leak sensors they just came in packs
of two how's that supposed to sense when
there's a leak these are powered by 5V
DC power and basically what happens is
if the two probes come into contact with
water at the same time the water is
going to act as a wire which is going to
connect our powered probe to our sense
probe I mean here's the thing like
realistically the water is going to pour
out and then probably just dump down to
the next server so these sensors inside
the computers they might not do that
much um so we're also going to add
sensors to the floor and that'll
probably be what saves us hey we just
got new cats yay do you want to come the
cats come on let's come meet the cats
they have fleas so they have to hang out
in here for a few more weeks until
they're old enough for flea treatment
and then um that might actually be a
good thing anyway cuz it'll give the
other cat some time to acclimate the
idea that something doesn't smell right
anyway here they
[Music]
are this might end up being a side
Adventure lm. g/f flat plane now that
the new Cat Adventure is over let's get
some stuff
mounted nice okay now we got to strip it
wouldn't something like this have a
strip it does then use this yeah but it
only works on this part so then you
figure out what gauge your wire is you
can look it up or you can just not
bother
okay and then squeeze as hard as I can
squeeze as hard as you
can ow who's my
hands maybe squeeze harder than you can
next time it like
hurts you know you're going to get me
made fun of on the inter internet for
having a boy with soft hands I don't
even like put product on or anything my
hands are just already soft I am shamed
just tell them to not shame you yeah
they listen to me why do they watch your
videos if they're not going to listen to
you that's a good
question that's great that's not going
to short out on
anything ow my hands
shamed here's what we're going to do
we're going to slide a little thing in
there like that then we're going to put
this down on it here we go then we slide
this out and theoretically we are
exactly one paper width off the bottom
now you got your screwdriver right yeah
okay we need to remove this power supply
man we have a lot to do I should go
check on the
ultra oh it stinks in here
oh you're going to put those in there
yeah why not you can just drain it out
of here outside yeah but I don't want to
drain it I want to maybe use it for some
more stuff maybe I could clean your
mom's jewelry would you ever even know
how scuffed this was ow ow ow
okay wow that looks like freaking not
quite new but certainly a lot better
this is great check this out Jake huh
huh huh that looks pretty gross still
what no that's that's copper no I meant
all this can I see please yeah yeah she
said please that's a magic word no
respect what the there's still some Sho
in here so we might have to do another
Quick Pass uh while this is all still
really soft and easy to get out and then
uh maybe we'll throw it in the
Ultrasonic Cleaner again now is a
perfect time to put our GPU back
together I did have to scrape some of
this man ually but after the Ultrasonic
Cleaner man does it ever come off easily
since my GPU block is now clean I'm
ready to start putting my graphics card
back together and the good news is all
of my thermal pads survived what are
thermal pads well here I can show you
there's stuff that makes heat and we
want to move that heat away from it so
that it doesn't get too hot and die but
because they might be mounted a little
bit higher or a little bit lower we
can't just put a piece of metal right
against it because our piece of metal is
going to be perfectly flat and it might
not make contact with all of them so a
thermal pad it's like a little pad that
is thermally conductive so it can carry
the heat through the pad and into our
metal you know how your computer runs
games really fast mhm without thermal
pads he no working we got to make sure
that this o-ring doesn't get crushed if
this gets crushed it has anything in the
way uh pretty much game over okay
you guys I asked for pipe cleaners I
mean that's a pipe cleaner I know but
this is an arts and crafts pipe cleaner
what pipe cleaners do I use I'm trying
to clean the threads so the inside here
and they bring me the fuz the fuzzy kind
I'll show you this one yes this but a
small
one oh that
guy oh
no boy
way oh he let the he let the O-rings
fall
down they're everywhere now there were
five when I put them in well where's the
fifth one oh I think it went down the
drain
hole yes it's there okay good okay well
no don't put them there put them in here
let's get this thing assembled let's go
I didn't take this one apart so I don't
know where they go they go where they go
it occurs to me as I'm s sitting here
thermal pasting this GPU for reassembly
that we don't actually know that it
still works while nothing else in the
system failed I don't think we ever
actually tried booting it with the
original GPU
so now I would never recommend running a
water cooled GPU without any water in it
but hey it's the do as I say not as I do
show right let's see if this GPU works
if we get an output I'm just going to
throw it in the system and call it good
hey look at that we got an output let's
go ahead and throw the system together
oh this exciting might be a good time to
get some of these tubes out of the way
how bad are these some of them don't
even look dirty inside should I just
replace all of them I feel like I should
I feel like I should just replace all of
them actually before I do that I should
test our new power supply bracket and
make sure that it works uh oh so perfect
uh-oh did we leave enough clearance for
the barrel Jack oh no
oh it's perfect it's Flawless look at
that professional so our 5vt leak sensor
is going to go in there like that and
our fiber optics go in like that and the
whole thing goes in here like that wait
no there's not enough clearance for the
barrel Jack and the power
supply new solution
no nut to secure the DC Barrel Jack
thing because I mean I don't know does
it really need one it's kind of in there
right and it fits yay you know what this
is kind of crazy but because of the
friction with the power
supply it's actually really secure in
there even without the nut like I cannot
move it all right we're back on track
let's get the league sensor back hooked
up
there I spared you guys a lot of the
boring details but she's completely
replumbed and everything is ready to
close up I'm afraid I'm not optimistic
enough to close up the top panel and
slide it into its spot in the rack so
we're just going to Huck it on the top
where it was before hook up the water
pipes at the back and see what happens
boop boop I don't have to power on the
system in order to get liquid to flow
through it so this is a perfect time to
see if anything's leaking
everything seems fine I mean it should
you know we removed the corroded
fittings but when you disassemble and
reassemble water blocks you know you can
make mistakes right dude I'm stressed I
don't remember the last time I was this
stressed to turn on a
computer let's go see if she fires up
this is the monitor that's supposed to
be lit up give it a sec she's memory
training
memories trained oh thank God
woohoo let's see how the temps are all
right
well I should have repasted the CPU
block you didn't repaste the CPU block
it was paste on there oh my God I'm
going to repaste it I even brought PTM
7950 from LT store.com for you oh I
didn't see it in fairness to me there
was a solid chance that none of this was
going to work at all and any time we
spent on it was a complete waste so now
that I know that the thing actually
works I can just pop this off throw some
more paste on yeah yeah that's uh not
enough paste I'll throw some more paste
on there and we'll call it a date Thal
pad time H temps are exactly the same I
bet the flow rate is lower from adding
the filter it's still going 10 L per
minute that's that's a lot divided by
seven systems I think this might be a
flow rate thing was it like that before
I don't think so I mean I can also check
one of the other systems yeah this one's
the same realistically they aren't 3D
rendering on these systems but in the
long term it might be nice to solve the
flow rate issue maybe a second in line
pump the more important one is the GPU
anyway so let's get that started this
one I'm expecting to be okay oh well
that's great this GPU is under 40
though and it's pulling 220 WTS all
right gaming systems for gamers do they
game casual 175 frames per second in
Halo infinite on medium 1440p oh no oh
no don't kill me please oh no no oh no
no got him oh double kill oh dang it
well it's a lot easier playing on my
kid's account his MMR not as high all
right cool well that's enough of
that time to throw this thing back in
the
rack I may have made a slight mistake
what did you do I buttoned everything up
before we actually tested the leak
sensor that's in there
I can unbutton it yeah all right this
going to hold yeah seems like it'll hold
okay leak test time what if something
catastrophic happens theoretically all
we've got to do now is take the other
end of that Barrel Jack lead hook it
into this league sensor which you guys
would have seen in the last video and
now I just pour some water in the
computer basically because it failed
here last time I put the league sensor
right there
so if this tube just comes flying off
again she's right there bud she's right
there oh my God are you actually oh is
it off yeah yeah yeah computer's off God
okay all clear on sensor 8 which is the
leak sensor so in theory when you bridge
these connections with
water leak detected okay that's a lot of
water paper towel please oh okay I mean
it's not that much water yeah I mean it
works it just is a lot of water for what
I would like to put into a computer
computer that has other computers
running beneath it still registering
still registering oh wow well that's
that's really good actually I can see
how it's working it's you don't need
water between them just enough surface
tension on both tips and then it
registers so that means we got the
distance just right on these we don't
actually need a ton of water right
because the chassis is metal it's using
the chassis as a circuit which is
usually a really great thing to do with
your computer well look it's only 5
volts it should be fine
it's working 0.6 come on Blow harder 0.4
0.3 keep going I'm going to pass
out that would be funny oh man laded oh
okay it's clear now if this registers a
leak in the future just come in here and
start blowing on it I mean I was going
to say well no I got to come in here and
start you know ripping power out of
things but I kind of don't well the
UPS's I do but everything else is going
to be sh down I did bring you brackets
to move your UPS if you want to do that
at some point I probably should in a
perfect world we'll put in some concrete
anchors or something like that and we'll
just Mount them to the wall over there
and then what's nice is that'll actually
give me another six rack units of space
in the rack not that I need more
machines but you never know I guess
now's a good time for us to change out
the coolant in these systems
to just in case everything else wasn't
enough make real good insure that she
doesn't corrode again
why is he so giddy about this coolant
this is G11 antifreeze which
conveniently is the same stuff you put
in BMWs why does it always have to come
back to BMWs with you like are you on
their payroll I just looked at the
forums and everyone was like yeah just
get G11 that's the stuff that works good
for this so This is the real stuff then
yeah I mean most antifreeze protects
most metals this is just like a high
quality made in Germany good one is this
concentrate it is concentrate that's a
10g tank let's throw both of these in
it's
blue wow look at that good
stuff one thing to note is that
antifreeze does technically reduced the
cooling performance a bit yeah it's not
catastrophic though a couple percent
realistically and we're not going like a
5050 concentration which is where you
would really notice it what we won't
have protection against though is the
non-conductive nature of pure water this
is probably going to contribute to the
conductivity yeah you didn't have pure
water anyways well it was pure enough
that that system survived no more
corrosion corrosion be gone oh hey look
at the down there oh it's so pretty I
think we need to flush out the existing
stuff though I'm kind of thinking we
stick the freshwater hose in there and
leave the drain open for a while oh okay
flushing this Loop about as interesting
as watching paint dry so you guys are
just going to have to take my word for
it that I swapped it out for the other
coolant and take my word for trusting
Dennis is saving tips by Dennis as like
to Co St number one start by collecting
sauce packet or little shampoo bottles
from hotels but what would even be
better is using our sponsor rocket money
you might be throwing money away on
subscription Services you have long
forgotten with rocket money canceling
subscriptions is easy no annoying survey
number two don't force yourself to poop
at work just to save on toilet paper
rocket money tracks your spending so
you're always in control no need to fear
running out okay okay I have enough
rocket money has helped save its
customers up to $740 a year when they
use all their features number three just
check out rocket money at the link in
the description and start saving money
properly if you guys enjoyed this video
maybe check out the last part where we
looked at the aftermath of the leak and
discovered all the corroded components